# Dashboard
This is a simple dashboard written in Javascript that uses the React library. It is still a work in progress. It contains some functionality such as displaying widgets and features an opening and closing menu bar. 

I worked on this project at work during April 2020. It was created during a “hackathon” where myself and a few others were tasked with creating a dashboard from scratch. This dashboard gave me insight as to how to implement libraries such as React and Material UI to create reusable components in JavaScript code.

I did use a template to get started, however much of the material found within the dashboard was coded in based on how we envisioned the dashboard to look. This project gave me an idea of how to break up JavaScript components into their own classes, and how each class is called based on user interaction. For instance, how each widget container is resized depending on the widget class that calls it. 

One update that was added was the implementation of an open source React component called React-grid-layout. This React addon was found on GitHub, openly available for use. Grid-layout is a React template that sits beneath the widgets and helps resize them whenever the corners are clicked and dragged. Implementing this library helps with resizing the widgets and moving them around. It adds flexibility with customizing the widgets on the dashboard and where they are placed. Before implementing this library, widget size and placement was hard coded into the dashboard, and there was little room for the user to resize and move the widgets. 

One concept I learned while improving upon this dashboard was discovering how openly available React components are on GitHub. Finding a free to use template greatly helped when improving the layout of the dashboard. Another concept I learned about was all the customizable components Material UI has to offer. Material UI provides free components created using the React JavaScript library. These components include buttons, containers, boxes, grids, sliders, switches, and much more. This also helped when improving upon the layout of the dashboard. A third concept I learned about was how to organize software code into different classes. Before, much of the code was written in into the dashboard.js file. While this worked, it was not ideal and could not be easily be broken up. Placing the widgets and containers into their own classes helped segment the different pieces of the dashboard, making them easier to reuse and modify. 
